#summary Main page of the ForeverMUD project
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

ForeverMUD is a modern, object-oriented C++ MUD written to use many newer programming practices.


= Features =

    * Makes gratuitous use of smart pointers, the standard template library, Boost libraries, and even a design pattern or two
    * Uses boost::spirit to parse grammar on a per-command basis, which allows for extremely complex, tailored grammar rules where needed
    * Cool temperature equalization system
    * All text is formatted on-the-fly, tailored to the client's resolution settings
    * Good code documentation (you're reading it!)
    * The engine is a collection of top-level (global) daemons that manage their own sections of the game
    * "Items Of Interest" matching ala Richard Bartle: http://www.mud.co.uk/richard/vv.htm
    * Uses YAML (YAML Ain't Markup Language) for loading and saving data (http://www.yaml.org/)
    * Multiple threads that handle different functions (sockets, saving, processing commands)
    * Modular, directory-based zone system supporting colored ASCII maps and shifting weather

= History =

This project has gone by many names, and for quite a long time it was only known as "MUD3", because it was the third complete rewrite of the project. In June 2010 I settled on the name "ForeverMUD", because it's taking forever to write.

Originally I attempted to build on SocketMUD, and had written an ANSI color patch for it, but I found the codebase a little too limiting. For a time, this code was a part of SIL ("Simple Interpreted Language"), a project I started with Jeff Moyer, who was writing the interpreter. After that project fell to the wayside, I took it upon myself to learn POSIX threads, and added threading. Since then many additional features have been added, and most of them have been a learning experience for me.

= Credit =

As mentioned before, SocketMUD gave me direction early on as I was trying to get the big picture into my mind. I'd like to thank Brian B. Graversen (http://www.socketmud.dk/) for writing and maintaining it. The only idea I glommed from SocketMUD was the separate threaded reverse-DNS lookup, because it was such a good idea!

Many ideas were also born out of reading Designing Virtual Worlds by Richard Bartle.

= Dedication =

I'd like to thank Richard Bartle and Roy Trubshaw for their foresight in pioneering virtual worlds. Dr. Bartle also deserves thanks for treating my wife and I to fish and chips and a personal tour of London. I hope to be able to return the favor some day.